Welcome, in this video, we're going to set up our SSH key.
The first step we need to do in order to communicate via SSH with GitHub
is to create our SSH key on our local system.
I'm currently in my user's home directory; if I do an "ls" on the ".ssh" directory,
I currently don't have a directory named ".ssh".
So, we need to create one first, "mkdir .ssh";
that will create a directory called ".ssh" that will contain all our SSH related files.
Press enter, now change directory into the ".ssh" folder: "cd .ssh".
This is where we're currently at; we're within a folder called ".ssh",
underneath our user's home directory.
Now, we need to use a tool called "ssh-keygen" to generate our public and private keys.
Type "ssh-keygen -t" for type; space; and then type is going to be "rsa";
space; then "-C" for common name; then, in double quotes, put your email address:
I'm going to use my email address "jason@git.training".
Carefully review this line, then press enter.
You'll be prompted where to save this file, press enter to accept the default.
Enter a passphrase, or press enter to have no passphrase.
Officially, I'm going to recommend that you use a passphrase;
however, if you're on windows, and don't like getting prompted for a passphrase all the time,
you may consider not using a passphrase.
However, the official recommendation is just to use a passphrase.
If you entered a passphrase, you will be prompted to verify it.
Once you've verified your passphrase again, press enter
and your public and private keys will be generated. Type "ls -al" to list all files.
You should have an "id_rsa" file, and also an "id_rsa.pub" file.
The ".pub" file is the public key, and the other file is your private key.
Leave your private key alone, and then open the .pub file with your favorite text editor.
Once your favorite text editor opens, select the entire contents of this file,
then copy to your clipboard. Once you've done that you can close your editor.